---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome"
date:   2017-08-20 14:34:25
categories: about
image: /assets/article_images/2014-11-30-mediator_features/night-track.JPG
image2: /assets/article_images/2014-11-30-mediator_features/night-track-mobile.JPG
---

This is an open source project advocating for better use consent in software design.

# What is consent?

Consent is most often discussed in terms of sex. "No means no" is a popular way to teach young people about inappropriate forms of sexual content.

However, we believe that consent is much more nuanced and goes beyond sex. Explicit, informed consent should be applied to every aspect of our daily lives.

## Explicit consent

Explicit consent is informed, enthusiastic confirmation in support of any action, from all parties involved. It's that simple!

## Implicit consent

Implicit consent is also known as "assumed" consent - this is when a person assumes that they have received another person's consent to interact with them or their data. This is where a lot of grey areas exist in software and in daily life.

Basically, if you're not sure you have someone's consent to do something - you should ask!

## Consent is like tea

If you're still not sure what consent is, it's as simple as tea.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/oQbei5JGiT8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Consensual software

Consensual software is software that asks for the user's explicit permission to interact with them or their data.

Consensual software respects users' privacy and does not trick or coerce users into giving away permissions or data.

Consensual software adheres to the [principle of least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege), where the software should have the least amount of permissions granted possible.

Consensual software informs [privacy by design](https://www.ipc.on.ca/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/pbd-primer.pdf) by making sure consent is the **default setting** and **embedded by design**.

Consensual software builds social capital and trust with users by respecting their boundaries.

Consensual software asks for permission first, rather than begging for forgiveness later. 

# Why make this site?
